# VELO Protocol

## 🚀The foundation of DeFi
Due to my background in economics, I have been following the DeFi space
closely. DeFi has already been recognized for its immense capabilities,
however it hadn’t come to full fruition as of just yet. Those who follow
the Austrian school of economics know why. Without proper incentive,
there is no reason for a larger group of individuals to lock up funds in
new DeFi protocol protocols. 

This was until Compound protocol went live. With the launch of their
governance token they tackled the 2 biggest problems related to DeFi;
The lack of a proper incentive and the lack of proper decentralisation.
You see, the main societal problem is how to prevent a central power
from becoming tyrannical. This is the meaning of all the struggles for
liberty and with the invention of blockchain technology we finally have
the real solution: Full decentralisation. 

With the inception of AMPL and YAM, DeFi made another leap forward.
Rebasing stable currencies have the potential to bring price stability
to DeFi. They increase and decrease the token supply  based on offer and
demand, resulting in a more stable token that increases and decreases in
supply. But what if the price of a currency instead of maintaining
stability, actually reflected its inherent value within the economy?
What if the supply and therefore price of a currency was determined by
its own VELOCITY? 

## 🌟 Introducing Velotoken
At the core of this project lies the core of economic value, the more a
currency is used, the more value it produces!

If I use a $10 bill to tip a waiter, which pays a cab driver $10, who
then orders a $10 pizza that same night, the total value of that bill
for the day amounts to $30. The velocity of that $10 bill causes it’s
value to triple.

Velotoken is the first protocol in history that enables direct
interaction with velocity. It is the first time the free market directly
affects not only the price of the currency, but also the supply.

## 🧬The protocol design 
VELOTOKEN combines the governance token from COMPOUND, the incentive
mechanism from YAM and the rebasing functionalities from AMPL. On top of
those, VELOTOKEN adds one completely new feature to the space, which is
directly triggered by its velocity. Let’s make the market itself decide
on its price. 

## 🎲Velonomics
Changes occur in the supply of FIAT currencies all of the time through
central banks. By printing more of the currency; increasing the currency
supply, the purchasing power of existing currency-holders decreases. On
the other hand, if the supply was to decrease, the purchasing power of
the holders would increase.

Once all Velotokens are farmed, the total amount in circulation will
contract or expand as a direct result of changes in velocity.! By
nature, any change in a currency’s total supply triggers a reaction in
the market, impacting price. Same is expected of the VELOTOKEN.


## ⚖️Supply Adjustments
The VELO protocol requires no external information, such as market
price, to allocate supply adjustments. This makes the protocol robust
against external manipulations. Only transactions that are publicly
available on the blockchain are used. Any third party can calculate the
supply adjustments independently of the VELO protocol. The ability to
trigger supply adjustments is a feature available to any VELOTOKEN
holder (see website), which can only be activated once per epoch.

## 💰The gas fee treasury 
In order to add more value to the community over time, I decided to add
an extra feature. Every transaction on the VELOTOKEN network will absorb
a small amount of gas fees which is stored in ETH. This amount falls
under the full management of Velotoken holders which can decide how it
is spent by community votes.

